/*
Title: Welcome
Description: This description will go in the meta description tag
*/

h2. Welcome to Phile

Congratulations, you have successfully installed "Phile":https://github.com/PhileCMS/Phile. Phile is a Markdown file-based CMS.

h3. Creating Content

Phile is a flat file CMS, this means there is no administration backend and database to deal with. You simply create <code>.md</code> files in the "content" folder and that becomes a page. For example, this file is called <code>index.md</code> and is shown as the main landing page.

If you create a folder within the content folder (e.g. <code>content/sub</code>) and put an <code>index.md</code> inside it, you can access that folder at the URL <code>http://yousite.com/sub</code>. If you want another page within the sub folder, simply create a text file with the corresponding name (e.g. <code>content/sub/page.md</code>) and you will be able to access it from the URL <code>http://yousite.com/sub/page</code>. Below we've shown some examples of content locations and their corresponing URL's:

| Physical Location           | URL                   |
| content/index.md            | /                     |
| content/sub.md              | /sub                  |
| content/sub/index.md        | /sub (same as above)  |
| content/sub/page.md         | /sub/page             |
| content/a/very/long/url.md  | /a/very/long/url      |

If a file cannot be found, the file <code>content/404.md</code> will be shown.

h3. Text File Markup

Text files are marked up using "Markdown":http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax. They can also contain regular HTML.

At the top of text files you can place a block comment and specify certain attributes of the page. For example:

<pre class="markdown">
/*
Title: Welcome
Description: This description will go in the meta description tag
Author: Joe Bloggs
Date: 2013/01/01
Robots: noindex,nofollow
*/
</pre>

These values will be contained in the <code>{{ meta }}</code> variable in themes (see below).

There are also certain variables that you can use in your text files:

* <code>%base_url%</code> - The URL to your Phile site

h3. Themes

You can create themes for your Phile installation in the "themes" folder. Check out the default theme for an example of a theme. Phile uses
"Twig":http://twig.sensiolabs.org/documentation for it's templating engine. You can select your theme by setting the <code>$config"'theme":</code> variable
in config.php to your theme folder.

All themes must include an <code>index.html</code> file to define the HTML structure of the theme. Below are the Twig variables that are available to use in your theme:

* <code>{{ config }}</code> - Conatins the values you set in config.php (e.g. <code>{{ config.theme }}</code> = "default")
* <code>{{ base_dir }}</code> - The path to your Phile root directory
* <code>{{ base_url }}</code> - The URL to your Phile site
* <code>{{ theme_dir }}</code> - The path to the Phile active theme direcotry
* <code>{{ theme_url }}</code> - The URL to the Phile active theme direcotry
* <code>{{ site_title }}</code> - Shortcut to the site title (defined in config.php)
* <code>{{ meta }}</code> - Contains the meta values from the current page
** <code>{{ meta.title }}</code>
** <code>{{ meta.description }}</code>
** <code>{{ meta.author }}</code>
** <code>{{ meta.date }}</code>
** <code>{{ meta.date_formatted }}</code>
** <code>{{ meta.robots }}</code>
* <code>{{ content }}</code> - The content of the current page (after it has been processed through Markdown)
* <code>{{ pages }}</code> - A collection of all the content in your site
** <code>{{ page.title }}</code>
** <code>{{ page.url }}</code>
** <code>{{ page.author }}</code>
** <code>{{ page.date }}</code>
** <code>{{ page.date_formatted }}</code>
** <code>{{ page.content }}</code>
** <code>{{ page.excerpt }}</code>
* <code>{{ prev_page }}</code> - A page object of the previous page (relative to current_page)
* <code>{{ current_page }}</code> - A page object of the current_page
* <code>{{ next_page }}</code> - A page object of the next page (relative to current_page)
* <code>{{ is_front_page }}</code> - A boolean flag for the front page

Pages can be used like:

<pre class="html">
&lt;ul class=&quot;nav&quot;&gt;
  {% for page in pages %}
    &lt;li&gt;&lt;a href=&quot;{{ page.url }}&quot;&gt;{{ page.title }}&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
  {% endfor %}
&lt;/ul&gt;
</pre>

h3. Config

You can override the default Phile settings (and add your own custom settings) by editing config.php in the root Phile directory. The config.php file
lists all of the settings and their defaults. To override a setting, simply uncomment it in config.php and set your custom value.

h3. Events

In the core we trigger a lot of events, which help to manipulate content or other stuff within a plugin.
To use the event system, you only have to register your plugin for a specific event, look at the example plugin for more an example.
The following list shows all events.

h4. plugins_loaded

this event is triggered after the plugins loaded

h4. config_loaded

this event is triggered after the configuration is fully loaded

h4. request_uri

this event is triggered after the request uri is detected.
| param                   | type                               | description                                                          |
| <code>uri</code>                   | string                             | the requested uri (without install_path)                             |

h4. before\_init\_template

this event is triggered before the the template engine is init

h4. before\_render_\template

this event is triggered before the template is rendered

| param                   | type                               | description                                                          |
| <code>templateEngine</code>        | \Phile\Template\TemplateInterface  | the template engine                                                  |

h4. after\_render\_template

this event is triggered after the template is rendered

| param                   | type                               | description                                                          |
| <code>templateEngine</code>        | \Phile\Template\TemplateInterface  | the template engine                                                  |
| <code>output</code>                | string                             | the parsed and ready output                                          |

h4. before\_read\_file\_meta

this event is triggered before the meta data readed and parsed

| param                   | type                | description                                                      |
| <code>rawData</code>               | string              | the unparsed data                                                |
| <code>meta</code>                  | \Phile\Model\Meta   | the meta model                                                   |

h4. after\_read\_file\_meta

this event is triggered after the meta data readed and parsed

| param                   | type                | description                                                      |
| <code>rawData</code>               | string              | the unparsed data                                                |
| <code>meta</code>                  | \Phile\Model\Meta   | the meta model                                                   |

h4. before\_load\_content

this event is triggered before the content is loaded

| param                   | type                | description                                                      |
| <code>filePath</code>              | string              | the path to the file                                             |
| <code>page</code>                  | \Phile\Model\Page   | the page model                                                   |

h4. after\_load\_content

this event is triggered after the content is loaded

| param                   | type                | description                                                      |
| <code>filePath</code>              | string              | the path to the file                                             |
| <code>rawData</code>               | string              | the raw data                                                     |
| <code>page</code>                  | \Phile\Model\Page   | the page model                                                   |

h4. before\_parse\_content

this event is triggered before the content is parsed

| param                   | type                | description                                                      |
| <code>content</code>               | string              | the raw data                                                     |
| <code>page</code>                  | \Phile\Model\Page   | the page model                                                   |

h4. after\_parse\_content

this event is triggered after the content is parsed

| param                   | type                | description                                                      |
| <code>content</code>               | string              | the raw data                                                     |
| <code>page</code>                  | \Phile\Model\Page   | the page model                                                   |
